Dear K:

Thank you for contacting me about my stances for the forthcoming mid-term elections. As you know, I am standing as the Liberty Union Party candidate for US Representative from Vermont. I retired from a career in Journalism, reporting on and editing articles concerning banks, mortgage finance and the financial markets in general. Politically, I am a Socialist with a very strong belief in democratic principles. Contrary to the misinformation spread by some factions of politics, Socialism is NOT in opposition to Democracy. Socialism is an Economic system that is in opposition to Capitalism. In a proper Socialist society, decisions are made by the vote of the people (democracy), and the means of production (such as factories) are owned by the people who work there. 

Now that you have a little background, let's get to your questions.

--The Economy
One's view of the Economy depends on who is looking at. An executive at one of the large corporations would say the Economy is doing great, because their investments and stock options are bringing in lots of money. Meanwhile, the average working person will say the Economy is bad, because prices have gone way up while wages have remained stagnant. People who work hard used to be able to support their whole family with a single job. Now, it requires two, and sometimes three, jobs to provide that same support. 

That is why I support a democratically run Socialist society. Instead of the money bubbling up to a small group of people as it does under Capitalism, it needs to stream outward to the people and their communities. Too many communities have withered away because a factory owner has moved production to another country, leaving those communities without a source of revenue to provide their services, such as street lights and road repairs. 

--Renewable energy
We need to put our efforts into "sustainable" energy; sources that can operate without requiring dwindling resources in their production. Where appropriate, wind power, solar power, geothermal and hydro-power all need to be utilized. These power generating operations need to be in the hands of the community, and should benefit the local community first and foremost. 

--Water quality of Lakes and waterways
Simply put, I want the highest water quality possible. I firmly believe polluters must be responsible for completely cleaning up their mess, and fined heavily if their polluting proves to be an on-going thing. There must be no government cap on their liability for the pollution. The communities must never be saddled with the costs of cleaning up after a polluter. 

--Taxes
Taxes are how society pays for itself. They should be used to provide the necessary services to the community. These include things such as safe, sturdy bridges, properly paved roads and emergency services (fire, rescue and emergency medical care) and schools.  Taxes must be progressive as well. The poorest must pay little to no tax, while the richest must pay the most tax. Likewise, a local "Mom and Pop" shop must pay a low tax rate, while large, multi-national "Big-Box" stores must pay a much higher rate. However, our Federal taxes are not, currently, going to the people in general. They are being used to fund a bloated military (we alone spend as much as our top ten allies), and to bail out failed banks. Yet it is the bank depositor, and not the bank operators, that are stuck with the bill (through our taxes). This must change. 

-- Public Education cost
Public education, from cradle to grave, needs to provided free of charge to the student. We pay taxes. It is those taxes, properly directed, that must pay for education costs. Just a fraction of the current military budget, shifted into the Education budget, would easily provide quality education for everyone. Also, a strict auditing of accounts needs to be done. Not all cost increases are legitimate. Those that are the result of "padding" or over-pricing must be adjusted down to actual cost, and not someone's profit-grabbing amount.
 
--Minimum Wage
Had the minimum wage kept up with the simple cost-of-living, it would currently be about $22 per hour of work. Had it kept up with production, it would now be about $30 per hour. People are currently fighting to get $15 per hour. Instead of paying the actual workers a fair market wage, too many companies, especially the huge multi-national corporations, pay the absolute minimum they can get away with - sometimes illegally underpaying people. Also, many University studies have shown that minimum wage increases do not hurt companies. In fact, they usually make the company stronger and help the local communities to thrive.  Any minimum wage must be enough that a person working a 40 hour week can pay their mortgage or rent, pay their bills, and eat quality food.  

Thank you so much, sincerely,
K-


You are quite welcome. I hope this was helpful for you. Good luck on your studies.

Laura S Potter
Candidate for Vermont Representative to the US House of Representatives
Liberty Union Party
laurapotter4congress@protonmail.com
